Synopsis
Albom is a successful sports columnist for the Detroit Free Press. After seeing his former sociology professor Morrie Schwartz appear on Nightline, Albom phones Schwartz, and is prompted to travel to Massachusetts to visit him. An ensuing newspaper strike allows Albom to visit Schwartz every week, on Tuesdays. The book recounts each of the fourteen visits Albom made to Schwartz, supplemented with Schwartz's lectures, life experiences, and interspersed with both flashbacks and allusions to contemporary events.

After being diagnosed with Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Morrie's final days are spent giving his former student Mitch his final lesson of life. The novel is divided into 14 different "days" that Mitch Albom spent with his professor Morrie. Throughout these days, Mitch and Morrie discuss various topic important to life and living. The novel also recounts Mitch's memories of Morrie as a professor.[3]

The 1st Audiovisual
This was the first episode out of three on a Nightline special on Morrie and his illness. Morrie caught the eye of a Nightline television producer after an article was published titled: "A Professor's Final Course: His Own Death". It was through this airing that Morrie's old student Mitch was reminded of his old professor, causing him to reach out and reconnect.

Main characters
Mitch Albom
Main article: Mitch Albom
Mitch Albom was born in May 1958 in New Jersey. Originally, he was a pianist and wanted to pursue a life as a musician. Instead he became an author, journalist, screenwriter, and television/ radio broadcaster. In his college years, he met sociology professor Dr. Morrie Schwartz who would later influence his novel Tuesdays with Morrie.

Morrie Schwartz
Main article: Morrie Schwartz
Morrie Schwartz is a sociology professor at University who is diagnosed with Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), also known as Lou Gehrig's disease. Morrie is a very wise man who has had many experiences in life. The son of Russian immigrants, Morries childhood was not short of difficulties including the death of his mother and his brothers infection with the Polio virus. Morrie later went on to work as a researcher in a mental hospital where he learned about mental illness and how to have empathy and compassion for other people. Later in life, Morrie decided to be a sociology professor so that his teachings would influence as many people as possible. This is where he met his student and lifelong friend Mitch Albom. Morrie was married to Charlotte Schwartz and together they had two children. After a long battle with ALS, Morrie died on November 4th, 1995. His tombstone reads "A teacher until the end."

Adaptations